v3 final (#2241)
snowpackjs/snowpack: www/_template/posts/2021-01-12-snowpack-3-0.md

- **Streaming package imports** - Fetch npm dependencies with Snowpack, on-demand.
- **Built-in esbuild bundler** - Built-in bundling, preloading, transpiling, and minification.
- **JavaScript API** - Integrate with Snowpack's brand new native JS API.
- **Node.js SSR runtime** - Import & run Snowpack-built files directly into Node.js.
- **Bug fixes, stability improvements, and a whole lot more!**

Install the newest version of Snowpack to get started:

```
$ npm install snowpack@^3.0.0 
```

Or, try out one of our updated [Create Snowpack App](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-snowpack-app) starter templates:

```
$ npx create-snowpack-app new-project-directory --template  @snowpack/app-template-react
```

## Reimagining Web Development for ESM

1 year ago, Snowpack first released with the mission to reimagine web development for modern JavaScript and ESM. Snowpack leveraged modern development to deliver a frontend build tool that needed 50ms or less to start up & react to new file changes regardless of project size. In comparison, traditional web bundlers could take several seconds or even full minutes to start up in large projects.

> Snowpack v3.0 marks another step forward on this mission to redefine modern web development with the release of **streaming package imports**. Streaming package imports are for a world where packages can be imported directly into your project, on-demand and only when needed.

Reviewer: > streaming package imports

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/kRWFIgO75okHm/giphy.gif)

<video preload="auto" autoplay loop muted playsinline>
 <source src="/img/streaming-imports-demo.webm" type="video/webm">
 <source src="/img/streaming-imports-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## How do Streaming Package Imports Work?

> The typically web developer installs and manages their JavaScript dependencies locally using a package manager CLI like `npm`, `yarn` or `pnpm`. These npm packages can't run directly in the browser, so additional work is needed to resolve, process, build and bundle these packages for the browser before you can actually use them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The typical web developer installs and manages their JavaScript dependencies locally using a package manager CLI like `npm`, `yarn` or `pnpm`. These npm packages can't run directly in the browser, so additional work is needed to resolve, process, build and bundle these packages for the browser before you can actually use them.
```

```js
// you do this:
import * as React from 'react';

// but get behavior like this:
import * as React from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/react@17.0.1';
```

That URL in the example above points to [Skypack](https://www.skypack.dev/), a popular JavaScript CDN that we built to serve every package on npm as ESM. Importing dependencies by URL like this is well supported in Snowpack, Deno, and all major browsers. But writing these URLs directly into your source code isn't ideal and makes development impossible without a network connection.

**Snowpack v3.0 brings together the best of both worlds:** Get the simplicity of `import 'react'` in your own source code and let Snowpack fetch these dependencies behind the scenes, pre-built and ready to run in the browser. Snowpack caches everything for you automatically, so you can continue to work offline after the first package fetch.

This new workflow has several benefits over the traditional "npm install" approach:

- **Speed:** Skip the install + build steps for dependencies, and load your dependencies on-demand as pre-build ESM code.

> - **Safety:** ESM packages are pre-built into JavaScript for you and never given access to [run code on your machine](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/sec19-zimmermann.pdf). Third-party code only ever runs sandboxed in the browser.

Reviewer: > Third-party code only ever runs sandboxed in the browser.

Really good callout; we should highlight this more

- **Less Tooling:** ESM packages are managed by Snowpack, so frontend projects that don't need Node.js (Rails, PHP, etc.) can drop the npm CLI entirely if they choose.
- **Identical Final Build:** When you build your site for production, package code is transpiled with the rest of your site and tree-shaken to your exact set of imports.

This is our bet on the future of web development. But if this all sounds too wild for you or you have some technical reason to keep managing your dependencies with npm, don't worry. This is **100% opt-in** behavior for those who want it. By default, Snowpack will continue to pull your npm package dependencies out of your project `node_modules` directory like it always has. 

Check out our guide on [Streaming Package Imports](/guides/streaming-npm-imports) to learn more about how to enable this new behavior in your project today.

![js api](/img/post-snowpackv3-esbuild.png)

## Built-in Optimizations, Powered by esbuild

> [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) is a marvel: it performs 100x faster than most other popular bundlers and over 300x faster than Parcel (by esbuilds own benchmarks). esbuild is written in Go, a compiled language that can parallelize heavy bundling workloads where other popular bundlers -- written in JavaScript -- cannot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) is a marvel: it performs 100× faster than most other popular bundlers and over 300× faster than Parcel (by esbuilds own benchmarks). esbuild is written in Go, a compiled language that can parallelize heavy bundling workloads where other popular bundlers—written in JavaScript—cannot.
```

Snowpack is able to adopt esbuild today thanks to an early bet that we made on the future of bundling: **bundling is just a post-build optimization.** Thanks to this early design decision, esbuild can be plugged in and swapped out of your Snowpack build as easily as any other bundler.

esbuild is still a young project, but its future looks promising. In the meantime, we will also continue to invest in the existing bundler plugins for a long time to come, so that more mature projects can continue to use mature bundlers like Webpack & Rollup.

To get started, check out the `optimize` option in our newest [Optimizing Your Snowpack Build](/guides/optimize-and-bundle) guide.

## A New JavaScript API

Snowpack's new JavaScript API grants you more advanced control over Snowpack's dev server and build pipeline, helping you build more powerful integrations on top of Snowpack to unlock new kinds of dev tooling and server-side rendering (SSR) solutions.

> [SvelteKit](https://svelte.dev/blog/whats-the-deal-with-sveltekit) is the new official web app framework from the Svelte team, built with Snowpack. SvelteKit uses our brand-new JavaScript API to manage the build pipeline and build files on-demand with zero upfront start cost. Snowpack helps SvelteKit speed up development.

Reviewer 2: > zero upfront start cost

I think you mean startup cost here, is `zero startup cost` clearer?
